# Introduction
Welcome to the documentation of how I want to make better things moving forward from
ChronoQuest.
## Why Make This Document?
It might be a question to many whoever reads this why I made this document. I did so in order to track and demonstrate how my planning and my knowledge of programming for the future has improved since creating ChronoQuest (and for future projects whenever I return). This lets my document act as a sort of transitioning phase away from my BPA project ChronoQuest, as I need to filter out and show the flaws in my systems and how I will improve them when making new software. Moreover, it lets me document my previous mistakes and what not to do from my personal experience. 
All flaws I notice from my previous works will be demonstrated in these volumes so as to not repeat them again. If I notice another rising issue that can be expanded upon, I will likely just craft a new document altogether. I might publish this if I feel it would be useful for other developers but in my opinion I feel that one of the most important traits of a good developer is the willingness to try to make something better again and again.
And lastly, I am grateful for every opportunity this game has given me. Genuinely. I have learned a lot about Unity and C#, leading me to take development even more seriously. It’s actually opening my eyes on how to follow through with a project. So I am eternally grateful for that.
# Flaws
Many flaws are in ChronoQuest. I wouldn’t be hurt if you said the game itself was a flaw.
In all seriousness, however, ChronoQuest does not have horrible flaws, only byproducts of a rushed project. There are definitely systems that are badly managed, though.
## “Godscripts” & Friends
One of the main things that I have learned is to NEVER allow your scripts to do more than one thing unless it is related directly to the main goal of the class. If you go into the code on my GitHub and find the Player script, it has become quite a nightmare. I don’t recommend it as I am personally ashamed of it.
While we’re on the topic of bad syntaxing, I might as well mention types and the initial lack of understanding I held with them. When first making this, I thought that there wasn’t another way to store data and have it show in the editor unless I had assigned it a `public` type. 
This isn’t horrible. But it’s bad if you don’t know what you’re doing. I didn’t and now the project became stuck with tons of nonrewritable variables that all are in a public setting, when instead they should be serialized and `private`. 
## A Misunderstanding of Scope
Beforehand, note that this is not really the sole reason--the competition itself required an excessive and frankly unnecessary amount of work for a 4 month deadline, as it offered an optional SQL database integration along with co-op which, in my opinion, falls flat of the idea of a puzzle game--yet I digress. With that being said, I frankly overestimated the scope for all 3 and for myself as well.
This time, I didn’t want to waste my energy on another project just to give it up, as I’d like to think I’m better than being a quitter now. This is why I’m shifting towards making personal projects in the first place--to test what I’ve learned from BPA’s competition and apply it to something even better, something more manageable, and something that is ultimately less strict. There will still be layers of planning, layers of designing, and layers of scheduling. And I will likely still crunch myself so that I am motivated to keep working on it, as the only way I considerably work on something is unfortunately constraining myself to a deadline.
A lot of behind the scenes content is still in the game, per usual, as it was either deemed boring or not sufficient for the story. Initially in ChronoQuest, it was planned that there would be a section where you had a UI and you clicked on dust to dust the bones underneath. If you clicked them too much, they’d crack. However, this to me did not feel very smoothly transitioned and didn’t feel like a puzzle all that much.
The scripts and assets are still in the game. You can look at the source code and probably find it really easily, to be honest.
And there’s tons of little things like that that can jeopardize the vision, if I’m going to be 100% honest. Mistakes happen in the industry, mistakes happen everywhere. Features get added and then scrapped. It happens. But layer this on top of an ambitious scope, and it becomes a nightmare to deal with.
The last thing I will say on this is that in order to craft and fully create something, you will have to look ahead. Please don’t ever try to wing it. If there’s one thing not talked about enough, it’s that in order to make a game well you must plan it out. I did so partially and even then you could see the consequences I faced from it. My two pieces of personal advice are to always anticipate having to fill in tasks and to try to set your personal goalpost a month behind so that you don’t get bit by the time crunch as much.
